# ReproFlake: A Dataset of Reproducible Flaky-Test Failures



# ISSTA_Rebuttal_Artifacts

This section contains additional artifacts provided **specifically for rebuttal purposes** to support our experimental claims and address reviewer concerns.

- [`Example Flaky test`](ISSTA_Rebuttal_Artifacts/example_flaky_tests.md)  
  → Provides representative examples of flaky tests (TD, ID, OD, NIO), along with explanations of their root causes and corresponding code snippets.

- [`Unreproducible JIRA List`](ISSTA_Rebuttal_Artifacts/unreproducible_jira.csv)  
  → Contains results for unreproducible tests from the JIRA dataset, for which we were unable to reproduce the flaky tests.

- [`Unreproducible iDoFT List`](ISSTA_Rebuttal_Artifacts/unreproducible_idoft.csv)  
  → Contains results for unreproducible tests from the iDoFT dataset, for which we were unable to reproduce the flaky tests.

- [`Checkstyle Results`](ISSTA_Rebuttal_Artifacts/scheckstyle)  
  → Contains static analysis (lint/checkstyle) results generated on selected test classes from the JIRA dataset.

- [`Mutation Results`](ISSTA_Rebuttal_Artifacts/mutation)  
  → Contains detailed outputs of mutation testing across selected flaky test classes from the JIRA dataset.

---

This repository primarily contains Python and Bash scripts for parsing and generating statistics for flaky unit tests across multiple iterations. It supports various flaky test types, including order-dependent (OD), time-dependent (TD), implementation-dependent (ID), Non-Idempotent-Outcome (NIO), and more. 


1. **Complete Flaky Test Dataset**  
The complete set of 1,115 flaky tests is available in the ReproFlake dataset. The dataset consists of 300 ZIP files, each containing one or more flaky tests. A single archive including all 300 ZIP files can be downloaded from [ReproFlake dataset](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17508466). Alternatively, each ZIP file can be downloaded individually from [Dataset 1](https://zenodo.org/records/18474558), [Dataset 2](https://zenodo.org/records/18634501), and [Dataset 3](https://zenodo.org/records/18605131).


2. **Guideline**  
The guideline to add new flaky tests to the reproducible dataset is available in  
[`research-data/Guideline.docx`](research-data/Guideline.docx).
(The [`data_log.xlsx`](research-data/data_log.xlsx), [`idflakies_od.zip`](research-data/idflakies_od.zip), [`idflakies_nio_2.zip`](research-data/idflakies_nio_2.zip) and [`initial_issue_report_list.csv`](research-data/initial_issue_report_list.csv) files in the folder are required to be used with the guideline)
3. **Flaky Tets from JIRA dataset**  
The list of reproducible tests from the JIRA dataset, along with related information, can be found here: [`Reproducible_JIRA_info.csv`](research-data/Reproducible_JIRA_info.csv).
4. **Flaky Tets from iDoFT dataset**  
The list of reproducible tests from the iDoFT dataset, along with related information, can be found here:
[`Reproducible_iDoFT_info.csv`](research-data/Reproducible_iDoFT_info.csv).
5. **Flaky Test Result**  
The result folder containing the logs generated by our infrastructure can be found here: [Test Result](https://zenodo.org/records/18451345)


# Automated Infrastructure for Flaky Test Reproduction and Result Analysis

### `Prerequisites`

- **Docker**: Ensure Docker is installed and running on your system to enable containerized execution of the analysis.
- **Ubuntu (Tested on Ubuntu Version 22.04)**: The analysis has been tested on Ubuntu 22.04 and is recommended for optimal performance.  
- **Curl**: Required for automatically downloading ZIP datasets.


### `Run the Script`

The files [`test_config.csv`](test_config.csv), [`runner.sh`](runner.sh), and [`single_runner.sh`](single_runner.sh) are key to running the tool. 

- **`test_config.csv`**:  
  This CSV files contains the meta data to run the tools for all the flaky tests, mainly used by `runner.sh`and `single_runner.sh`. It contains test type, `result_container` (folder unique name for each test where the tool will works and produce the rest, this folder will be created inside the data folder during the run time), `zip name` (zip files inside data folder which is corresponding to one or more tests), `module`, `polluter/state setter` (for od only), `flaky_test`, `iterations`, `config` (All, Flaky, FixedPassingOrder, Fixed, FlakyPassingOrder, FlakyCodeChange, FixedCodeChange), `java version`, `polluter/state setter` (for od flaky test), `nondexseed` for ID flaky test to reproduce deterministically, and `url` to download the ZIP dataset that contains one or more flaky tests.
 
- **`runner.sh`**:   
 It works as wrapper to run appropriate flaky analysis tools based on the data it received from `test_config.csv`. It reads test configurations from the CSV file and runs the appropriate analysis tool based on the test type one by one.

- **`single_runner.sh`**:   
 Similar to `runner.sh`, but executes only one flaky test from `test_config.csv`.
It takes a single argument — the `result_container` value corresponding to the test in test_config.csv — and runs the tools for that specific test only.


To execute the tool, first clone the repository and run the script `single_runner.sh` providing the `result_container` value as the parameter from the `test_config.csv`(This value is unique for each test. If multiple tests belong to the same module, the `result_container` value is still unique) file. For result_container `BOOKKEEPER-846` ( [`BOOKKEEPER-846.zip`](data/BOOKKEEPER-846.zip) is present in the cloned `data` directory) `run` (from clonned directory): 

  ```bash
    chmod +x single_runner.sh
    ./single_runner.sh BOOKKEEPER-846
  ```
To run the **full collection**, please run the script `runner.sh`. It will launch the tool based on `test_config.csv`. The ZIP datasets will be downloaded automatically from the url column (if not already present in the data/ directory). The tool then processes the tests sequentially according to the configuration defined in `test_config.csv`.

 ```bash
    chmod +x runner.sh
    ./runner.sh
```


## `Input`


The input data is stored in the data folder, which contains zipped files. Our automated script processes these zip files to generate results. The following are the key input data folders and files inside the zip files used during the execution of the flaky test analysis:

- **`Flaky`**:  
  Contains the source code that includes the flaky test. 

- **`Fixed.patch`**:  
  A patch file used to generate the fixed version of the source code from the `Flaky` folder.

- **`FixedCodeChange.patch`**:  
  A patch file used to generate the fixed version with additional code changes from the `Flaky` folder.

- **`FlakyCodeChange.patch`**:  
  A patch file used to generate the flaky version with additional code changes from the `Flaky` folder. 

- **`Flakym2`**:  
  A directory used to store the `.m2` repository for maven dependencies during test execution. This ensures that the containerized environment can access required dependencies efficiently without re-downloading them for each run.

- **`Fixedm2`**:  
  A directory used to store the `.m2` repository for maven dependencies specific to the fixed version. If the dependencies for the fixed version are the same as those in `Flakym2`, this directory will not be present in the data directory, as `Flakym2` can handle Maven execution requirements.

## Output
After executing the script, the following outputs will be generated and stored as the `result` directory inside the corresponding `result_container` folder in `data` folder on the host machine. The results are organized into subdirectories based on the version codes: `Flaky`, `FlakyCodeChange`, `Fixed`, `FixedPassingOrder`, `FlakyPassingOrder`, and `FixedCodeChange`.

- **surefire-reports**:  
  Maven-generated reports containing detailed test execution logs. These include information about passed, failed, and errored test cases, along with stack traces and other debugging details.

- **rounds-test-results.csv**:  
  A CSV file summarizing the outcomes of all test iterations. It provides whether the test passes, failures, or has errors.

- **testlog**:  
  Log file capturing the output from each iteration as it appears in the terminal during test execution.

- **summary.txt**:  
  A text file summarizing key test metrics, such as total iterations, passes, failures, and errors.


## Important Folders and Files

The following are the key files for flaky test reproduction and result analysis:

- **`python-scripts`**:  
  Python script to processes Maven Surefire XML reports to extract detailed test case results. It parses the report to identify the status of each test case (pass, failure, or error), along with execution time, and outputs the results in a structured format for further analysis.

- **`iDflakies` and `testrunner`**:  
  [`iDflakies`](https://github.com/UT-SE-Research/iDFlakies) and [`testrunner`](https://github.com/TestingResearchIllinois/testrunner.git) are used to run Non-Idempotent-
Outcome (NIO) flaky tests.

- **`statistics_generator.sh`**:  
  A Bash script designed to automate the process of running a specified test iteratively, analyzing test results, and generating comprehensive statistics for flaky tests. The script is used by `flaky_analysis_tool`, `flaky_analysis_tool_td.sh` and `flaky_analysis_tool_td_proto.sh`. It performs: 
  - Builds the project with Maven while skipping tests and unnecessary checks.
  - Executes the test for a given number of iterations (default: 100) and logs results for each run.
  - Uses the `parse_surefire_report.py` script to extract and format test results from Surefire XML reports.
  - Organizes logs and test result files into structured directories (`flaky-result`).
  - Calculates and summarizes the counts of test passes, failures, and errors in a summary file.
  - Saves the results in `rounds-test-results.csv` and outputs a summary to `flaky-result/summary.txt`.
  

- **`od_statistics_generator.sh (For order-dependent flaky tests)`**:  
  A Bash script designed to analyze and generate statistics for order-dependent flaky tests by running a flaky test along with its polluter/state setter test in a specific order for multiple iterations. The script is used by `flaky_analysis_tool_od.sh`. It performs: 
  - Builds the Maven project with necessary options while skipping unnecessary checks.
  - Executes the specified tests (`polluter/state setter` and `flakytest`) in the desired order for a given number of iterations (default: 100).
  - Uses the `parse_surefire_report.py` script to process Surefire XML reports and extract detailed results for the flaky test.
  - Organizes logs, test results, and summaries into structured directories (`flaky-result`).
  - Outputs a summary of test passes, failures, and errors to `flaky-result/summary.txt`.

- **`Dockerfile`**:  
  A configuration file for building the Docker image used in flaky test analysis. It sets up a Java 8 and Maven environment, installs required dependencies (e.g., Python, BeautifulSoup, lxml), and defines a default command to run the `statistics_generator.sh` script, wwhich is available int the script repository. 

- **`Dockerfile.proto`**:  

  This `Dockerfile.proto` sets up a custom Docker image to add extended protobuf 2.5.0 dependency for hadoop project. It extends `flaky_base_jdk8` (Please see `flaky_analysis_tool.sh`) image based on `Dockerfile`.

- **`Dockerfile.id`**:  

   A configuration file for building the Docker image used in flaky test analysis for id-related flaky test to run with nondex plugin. It sets up a Java 11 and Maven environment, installs required dependencies (e.g., xmllint), and to run the `id_statistics_generator.sh` script, which is available int the script repository. 

- **`Dockerfilej.dk8id`**:  

  A configuration file for building the Docker image used in flaky test analysis for id-related flaky test to run with nondex plugin. It sets up a Java 8 and Maven environment, installs required dependencies (e.g., xmllint), and to run the `id_jdk8_statistics_generator.sh` script, which is available int the script repository. 

- **`Dockerfile.od`**:  

  A configuration file for building the Docker image used in flaky test analysis for od-related flaky test to run with custom surefire. It sets up a Java 8 and Maven environment with [custom surefire](https://github.com/TestingResearchIllinois/maven-surefire), installs required dependencies (e.g., Python, BeautifulSoup, lxml), and to run the `od_statistics_generator.sh` script, which is available int the script repository. 

- **`Dockerfile.odproto`**:  

   This `Dockerfile.odproto` sets up a custom Docker image to add extended protobuf 2.5.0 dependency for hadoop project. It extends `flaky_base_jdk8_od` (Please see `flaky_analysis_tool_od_proto`) image based on `Dockerfile.od`. 



- **`flaky_analysis_tool_td.sh`**:  
  A comprehensive script designed to execute and manage the analysis of a single timing dependent flaky test across various code versions within a Docker container:
  - Parameters for `flaky_analysis_tool_td.sh`
   - **`moduleName`**:  
     The relative path of the module from the root directory.  
     Example: `bookkeeper-server`.

     - **`fullQualifiedTest`**:  
     The fully qualified name of the test method.  
     Example: `org.apache.bookkeeper.client.SlowBookieTest#testSlowBookie`.

   - **`iteration`**:  
       The number of test iterations to run. Default is `100`, but you can adjust this based on your requirements. 

   - **`version_code (Optional)`**:  
      Specifies the code version to analyze. If you don't send any version code, then it will run for All. Allowed values include:
      - `All`
      - `Flaky`
      - `FlakyCodeChange`
      - `Fixed`
      - `FixedCodeChange`.

- **`flaky_analysis_tool_td_proto.sh`**:  
  Its functionality is identical to `flaky_analysis_tool_td.sh`, but it also manages additional dependencies related to Protobuf using an extended Dockerfile, `Dockerfile.proto`

- **`flaky_analysis_tool_od_proto.sh`**:  
  A comprehensive script designed to execute and manage the analysis of a single order-dependent flaky test across various code versions within a Docker container. Parameters for `flaky_analysis_tool_od_proto.sh`:
  - **`moduleName`**:  
    The relative path of the module from the root directory.  
    Example: `bookkeeper-server`.

  - **`polluter/state setter`**:  
    The fully qualified name of the test that must execute before the order-dependent flaky test to cause it to fail.

  - **`FLAKY_TEST`**:  
    The fully qualified name of the test that will execute as flaky if `polluter/state setter` runs earlier.

  - **`iteration`**:  
    The number of test iterations to run. Default is `100`, but you can adjust this based on your requirements. 

  - **`version_code (Optional)`**:  
     Specifies the code version to analyze. If no version code is provided, it will execute for all versions. Allowed values include:  
    - `All`
    - `Flaky`:
    - `FixedPassingOrder`: Runs the tests on the fixed version of the code while reversing the test order.  
    - `Fixed`
    - `FlakyPassingOrder`: Runs the tests on the flaky version of the code while reversing the test order.  

## To contribute for more test type

To add more test type, create corresponing statistics generator like `statistics_generator.sh` and flaky analysis tools like `flaky_analysis_tool_td.sh`. Also you might need extended docker file. Add corresponing test type in `test_config.csv` file and add corresponding changes in `runner.sh`. 
